































Introduction



In the series Tengen toppa gurren lagann we can explore many themes and topics but there is one that specifically stands out. Determination is a key aspect in the series. Determination is to constantly pursue or to achieve a specific goal or dream regardless of how hard it is to achieve. In the series, we see two characters playing a huge role in the aspect of determination. The reason why I chose determination as the research topic because I feel that determination is a vitally important aspect that everyone should have to achieve their dreams. Determination is an important element for achieving a person’s dream.



Determination is seen everywhere throughout the anime. We particularly see this from two characters in the anime. The characters are Kamina and Simon. They are both very important characters as seen in the anime. It is safe to say that without the presence of these two we will not be able to see them achieve their final goal. The dream of where Earth can live in peace. That is the reason why I chose these two characters because they are excellent examples of determination.



The first man I want to discuss about is the character named Kamina. In the series Kamina is an important symbol of determination. His will power is determination itself and this is a very important point in the series because having determination, the will power of determination, means having strength. It means having strength to fight his enemies. In the series, we can conclude that Kamina has in fact more determination than any other character in the whole series. No matter how hard the situation is and no matter how the odds are stacked against him he would fight hard till the very end. His determination is more than any of the average person. That is what I would like to discuss about. Where does Kamina get his strong determination from? Why or how can he be so determined even when the odds are stacked against him? I have three theories as to where Kamina gets his determination.



The second man I want to discuss about is the character named Simon. It is seen very clearly that Simon lacked in many things including the key aspect – determination. Determination is an important aspect as it is linked to the devastating power called the “Drill power”. It is seen clearly that Simon is basically the total opposite of Kamina in the beginning of the series. Simon is portrayed to be weaker than Kamina and yet the Lagann chose him. That is what I would like to discuss about. Why did the drill power choose Simon and not anybody else? I also have three theories to why Simon was chosen by the drill power.

Kamina’s Determination

His father



The first theory I would like to discuss about is Kamina’s father. From what we see in the series it is safe to assume that Kamina’s father influenced Kamina to become the person he is in the series. Kamina’s father was probably more than just a hero or a role model to Kamina. His father was his goal. He wanted to show his father he is a man that can go onto the surface by himself.



His father was able to go onto the surface where as he was stuck underground, may have made Kamina regret. Kamina regretted not going up to the surface with his father when he was young. He told his father he was not ready at the time but as time went on he realized he had made a great mistake so he constantly blames himself for not being on surface. Kamina constantly blaming himself may have influenced him becoming more determined than ever. It is possible that he got his extraordinary determination from constantly chasing after his father, his dream to meet his father. Even after he found out that his father has passed away he did not falter. In fact, it may have given Kamina more reason to be determined. At that moment Kamina realized that he will probably have to see places that his father has not seen. Kamina will have to fill into his father’s role but he knows he will never be like his father which makes him more determined.





























Genetics (born with determination)



My second theory regarding Kamina’s extraordinary determination is genetics. Throughout the series, we can see that Kamina is definitely a risk taker, an ambitious man, a brave person and a dream chaser.



In the series, we see that Kamina’s father did make it the surface. Kamina’s father said it himself that the surface is truly a man’s world. From that small amount of information, we can already tell what kind of personality his father has. Kamina’s father is definitely a risk taker. He is definitely ambitious. He is brave and he is definitely a dream chaser. I say this because men that go up to the surface alone must either be crazy or they are like Kamina’s father (everything that I mentioned above).



That being said we could compare their personalities between the father and the son. The similarities are very close and we can assume that the possibility of Kamina’s father being a very determined person is very high. The saying of “like father like son” applies to this very series. I think it was no coincidence that the author drew Kamina very similar to his father. It was probably to illustrate that they are almost exactly the same person. So, it is also very likely that Kamina was born with an extraordinary amount of determination. It is possible that he was genetically born with a personality either similar to his father or greater than his father.





























The Environment



The final point that I would like to discuss about Kamina’s determination is the environment that he stayed in. In the series we see that Kamina stays in an underground village called Giha village. There are many villages like Giha village underground. Staying underground was the only way of survival and it was probably the safest place for humans. But Kamina did not see it that way. Kamina had a completely different view of this. Kamina felt pressured and couldn’t deal with the fact that he constantly had a roof above his head. Kamina mentioned that that the surface has no ceiling. He was tired of the same place and wanted to see the surface that he had heard about when he was young. He was curious of what the outside world would look like. It is possible that he has been staring and staying at the same place caused Kamina to leave the village. The environment has forcefully made Kamina leave the village, Kamina could not stay in the same environment because he probably did not feel like himself. Kamina had a dream of reaching the surface only because of the environment he stayed in.



In the series Kamina had tried numerous breakouts to the surface but he has never succeeded. Although constantly failing so many times he never gave up. That is how Kamina got his determination. He was desperate to leave the environment he stayed in. It was like an acquired personality, something he gained from trying to break out over and over and over again.



The environment has evoked Kamina’s curiosity and made Kamina have an extraordinary dream where we could create world peace. The environment made Kamina acquire this extraordinary determination.



















Why was Simon chosen by the drill power?

Coincidence? Fate?



The first point that I would like to ask is: Is it possible that the drill power found itself to Simon by pure coincidence or fate? Lordgenome, the Spiral King, mentioned in the series that humans may have discovered something that they should not have found. Lordgenome emphasizes it again later in the series that Lagann and the core drill was a devastating power that was buried away and yet still found by humans. This could really mean that Simon was chosen by this power by pure coincidence or the work of both coincidence and fate. But I believe that it was the work of both coincidence and fate. The Lagann being buried under the same village as where Simon lives must have really been a coincidence because the Earth is really big and it could have been buried anywhere else.



Fate definitely played a role as well because Simon is either one of the best or the best digger in the village. Simon enjoys digging because he mentioned that he could find souvenirs. If Simon was not a digger and did not enjoy digging Simon would not have found the core drill and the machine Lagann.



My conclusion is that I believe it was the work of both coincidence and fate. I feel that this is probably the closest theory as to why Simon was chosen by the drill power.























The Hidden Potential of Simon



The question that we all ask is how was Simon chosen by the drill power? Why was not Kamina chosen instead of Simon? In the beginning, Simon is portrayed as a physically and mentally weak boy but as the plot unfolds we see that Simon gains his own determination and becomes a braver, stronger and very ambitious person. Simon turns out to be like Kamina or even better than Kamina. Later in the series, we see how Simon starts resembling Kamina. This was probably no coincidence as it may have meant that Simon has become Kamina.



We see in the beginning how Simon always relied on Kamina but after Kamina’s death Simon finally gained his own determination from experiencing a death of a close friend. Rossiu once said that the death of Kamina was what made them stronger. We see the sudden change when Simon fights one of the generals called Guame. We see the start of change and improvement Simon has made.



This was the mark where we see the change in Simon. This is where Simon started

to change and mold into the figure that is like Kamina or even greater than Kamina. It showed that Simon has finally chosen his own way of living and not Kamina anymore.



I believe that Simon actually has surpassed Kamina. In the series, there was a stage when Kamina mentioned how Simon is taller than him. I see that specific event as Simon actually surpassing Kamina, becoming a better man than Kamina. Simon being taller than Kamina meant that Simon has outgrown Kamina and he is destined for even more.



The drill power must have been able to foretell these events and see that Simon

will become an extraordinary man with a great future ahead of him. The drill power may have chosen Simon over Kamina because it may have seen that Simon would be the better candidate. This may be the reason why Simon has been chosen by the drill power.







Simon being a hard worker.



Simon may not be the most determined or the most athletic one but one thing

that Simon always did was that he always worked hard and focused at the task at hand.



Simon is either one of the best or the best digger in the village. The chief once said that he has an important job and that is expanding the village. Although he has such an important job he gets very little credit for it. The other villagers do not really acknowledge Simon for it. Sometimes Simon is even teased as being a dirty boy by the girls of the village.



In the end regardless of how Simon is treated. He did not get any real credit or

praise from people but he still continued to work hard and dig tunnels on a daily basis



There was a story that Kamina told Yoko, the sniper of the team. There was a time when they were trapped and buried beneath tons of huge rocks. Kamina mentions that Simon is normally the one that saves him. Kamina says that Simon is actually the last one that never gives up until the last minute. It was Simon that was continuously digging. That is how they broke out of the last pieces of rock.



This is all evidence that shows that Simon may have been a hard worker for all his

life and he hardly gets any credit for it. That may be the reason why he was awarded with the extraordinary power, the Drill Power. Maybe Simon deserved the drill power after all.















Conclusion



In the anime, Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann, the characters wanted to achieve

World peace. They achieved this in the end by showing grit and their own will power. But most importantly they had determination. Determination was the key to achieving a person’s dream. Kamina and Simon, portrayed determination that is clearly not of this world. Their determination, in fact, was something very praiseworthy of. We, as the human race, are probably the only race that is blessed with this trait called determination. It is true that not everyone has determination but it is something that everyone and any person can work for.



In life we get the people that are born more determined than other just like but

you get others that worked for it and attained it later in life just like Simon. Regardless of which character you are like it does not matter. As long as someone has a dream and that person is determined. That person will achieve success regardless of how big or small the dream is.



As long as a person has determination, you will be surprised how far that

determination takes them. As I said earlier and I will emphasize it again. Determination is an important element for achieving a person’s dream.






